Spring -> Used to remove dependency.
1. Design Patterns
Inversion of control -> 
  class Employee{  
    Address address;  
    Employee(){  
      address=new Address();  
    }  
  }  // Address is tightly coupled with Employee here.

  // Using IOC we loosely coupled this.
  // Here address is passed as parameter
  class Employee{  
    Address address;  
    Employee(Address address){  
      this.address=address;  
    }
  }
  Advantage -> no need to change code if it is moved to new environment


Dependency Injection -> 
1. By Constructor -> Aboved Example
2. By Setter Method -> Using factory to get/set


# Spring Module flow chart?

# Ioc Container
1. BeanFactory (org.springframework.beans.factory.BeanFactory)
  Resource resource=new ClassPathResource("applicationContext.xml");
  BeanFactory factory=new XmlBeanFactory(resource); // Instance of XmlBeanFactory
                                                    |
                                                   \/
                              Implementation class of BeanFactory

2. ApplicationContext (org.springframework.context.ApplicationContext) -> Created over BeanFactory(Preferred);
  ApplicationContext context = new ClassPathXmlApplicationContext("applicationContext.xml");
                                                                          |
                                                                         \/
                                            Implementation class of ApplicationContext
# Dependency Injection(DI) Go to line 2(Design pattern)
-> Dependency Lookup -> Approach where we get the resource after demand.
      eg 1 -> A obj = new AImpl();
      eg 2 -> A obj = A.getA();
      eg 3 -> Context ctx = new InitialContext();  
                  Context environmentCtx = (Context) ctx.lookup("java:comp/env");  
                  A obj = (A)environmentCtx.lookup("A");  

    Disadvantage -> Tight Coupling & Not easy to test.

# Pass multiple parameter using xml file in constructor // Default type is string
<bean id="a1" class="com.javatpoint.Address">  
  <constructor-arg value="111" type="int"></constructor-arg>  
  <constructor-arg value="What is java?"></constructor-arg>  
  <constructor-arg>  
    <list>  
      <value>Java is a programming language</value>  
      <value>Java is a Platform</value>  
      <value>Java is an Island of Indonasia</value>  
    </list>  
  </constructor-arg>  
</bean>

# Pass parameter from one bean to another
<bean id="e" class="com.javatpoint.Employee">  
  <constructor-arg value="12" type="int"></constructor-arg>  
  <constructor-arg value="Sonoo"></constructor-arg>  
  <constructor-arg>  
    <ref bean="a1"/>  
  </constructor-arg>  
</bean>

#Using Map
<map>  
  <entry key="Java is a Programming Language"  value="Ajay Kumar"></entry>  
  <entry key="Java is a Platform" value="John Smith"></entry>  
  <entry key="Java is an Island" value="Raj Kumar"></entry>  
</map>  

# Inherit parent bean data
<bean id="e2" class="com.javatpoint.Employee" parent="e1">  



#Setter Injection using property key
public int getId() {  
  return id;  
}
public void setId(int id) {  
  this.id = id;  
}

<bean id="obj" class="com.javatpoint.Employee">
  <property name="id" value"20"></property>
</bean>

List
<property name="answers">  
  <list>
    <value>Java is a programming language</value>  
    <value>Java is a platform</value>  
    <value>Java is an Island</value>  
  </list>  
</property>  

Setter is preffered


# Autowiring -> This enables to inject the object depedency implicitly, internally uses setter & onstructor.

No.	    Mode	            Description
1)	      no	                It is the default autowiring mode. It means no autowiring bydefault.
2)	    byName	        The byName mode injects the object dependency according to name of the bean. In such case, property name and bean name must be same. It internally calls setter method.
3)	    byType  	       The byType mode injects the object dependency according to type. So property name and bean name can be different. It internally calls setter method.
4)	    constructor    The constructor mode injects the dependency by calling the constructor of the class. It calls the constructor having large number of parameters.
5)	    autodetect	   It is deprecated since Spring 3.

Eg
<bean id="a" class="org.sssit.A" autowire="byName"></bean>
* In case of **byName** autowiring mode, bean id and reference name must be same.(Reference is available in class)
* In case of **byType** autowiring mode, bean id and reference name may be different. But there must be only one bean of a type.
* In case of **Constructor** spring container injects the dependency by highest parameterized constructor

By Type
<bean id="b1" class="org.sssit.B"></bean>
<bean id="b2" class="org.sssit.B"></bean>   // -> if commented will work, multiple instance of same class
<bean id="a" class="org.sssit.A" autowire="byName"></bean>

Constructor
<bean id="a" class="org.sssit.A" autowire="constructor"></bean>

No autowire
<bean id="a" class="org.sssit.A" autowire="no"></bean>


# Depedency Injection with factory method ??????

