## Multi-Model

Support Multi-Model Objects i.e document, graph, key/value & Real Object.
Has seperate api for all four models

* #### Document
    Date stored in key value pair/JSON
    Group of document is collection.
    It uses the concept of **Classes**, **Cluster**, & **Link** for Storing/Grouping & Analying documents.

* #### Graph
    Store data in the form of **Vertices**(Nodes) interconnected by **Edges**(Arcs).
    Class extend **V** for Vertex & **E** for Edges.

* #### Key/Value
    Store data in JSON format

* #### Object Model(Deprecated after v1.5)

## Record

Smallest unit that can be load from and store in database.
  * Document - JSON document
  * Record Bytes - 
  * Vertex - Graph DB node
  * Edge - Connect one vertex to another(Graph Db Arcs)

## Key Concept

  * RecordId - Unique id like key in  record.
  Format - cluster:position
  cluster is in which cluster record is available & position is sequence in which record is available
  * Class - 
  * Cluster - A place where group of class, records are stored.
      All record of class is stored in same cluster having same name as class.
     Max cluster in DB is **32,767(2^15-1)**
  * Relationship
      1. Referenced - stores direct link to the target objects of the relationships.
      2. Embedded(Stronger) - stores the relationship within the record that embeds it.

## Data-Types
  Type | Value | Type | Value
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
Boolean | 0,1 | Short | 16 bit Integer
Integer | 32 bit Integer  | Long | 64 bit Integer
Float | Decimal | Double | Decimal with Precision
Date-Time | Date with Miliseconds | String | String
Binary | Byte | Array | Embedded |  
Embedded List | - | Embedded Set | -
Embedded Map | - | Link | link to Other record(1/1 relation)
Link list | link to Other record(1/many relation) <br> Contain only **RecordId** | Link set | link to Other record(1/many relation)
Link map | - | Byte | Single byte(8 bit int)
Transient | - | Date | Any Date
Custom | - | Decimal | - 
LinkBag | - | Any |  - 

## Lightweight edges
They don't have their own identities as record, but are physically stored as links inside vertices.
Orientdb automatically use lightweight edge only when it doesn't have own property else regular edge is used.
But since lightweight edge doesn't exit as seperate record "Select from E" will not show Lightweight edge.

To diasable Lightweight Edge
ALTER DATABASE CUSTOM useLightweightEdges=false

This will only work for newly created edge already created edge will remain unaffected.
