# Db Commands

###Create

```java
CREATE DATABASE <database-url> [<user> <password> <storage-type> [<db-type>]]
```
* database-url − Defines the URL of the database. URL contains two parts, one is `mode` and the second one is `path`.
  * mode − Defines the mode, i.e. local mode or remote mode.
  * path − Defines the path to the database.
* user − Defines the user you want to connect to the database.
* password − Defines the password for connecting to the database.
* storage-type − Defines the storage types. You can choose between PLOCAL and MEMORY.

#### Example
  ```java
  CREATE DATABASE PLOCAL:/opt/orientdb/databses/demo
  ```
---
### Alter

  ```java
  ALTER DATABASE <attribute-name> <attribute-value> 
  ```
  * attribute-name - Attribute that you want to modify.
  * attribute-value - New Value

Attribute Name | Description
- | -
STATUS | Defines the database’s status between different attributes.
IMPORTING | Sets the importing status.
DEFAULTCLUSTERID | Sets the default cluster using ID. By default it is 2.
DATEFORMAT | Sets the particular date format as default. By default it is "yyyy-MM-dd".
DATETIMEFORMAT | Sets the particular date time format as default. By default it is "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss".
TIMEZONE | Sets the particular time zone. By default it is Java Virtual Machine’s (JVM’s) default time zone.
LOCALECOUNTRY | Sets the default locale country. By default it is JVM’s default locale country. For example: "GB".
LOCALELANGUAGE | Sets the default locale language. By default it is JVM’s default locale language. For example: "en".
CHARSET | Sets the type of character set. By default it is JVM’s default charset. For example: "utf8".
CLUSTERSELECTION | Sets the default strategy used for selecting the cluster. These strategies are created along with the class creation. Supported strategies are default, roundrobin, and balanced.
MINIMUMCLUSTERS | Sets the minimum number of clusters to create automatically when a new class is created. By default it is 1.
CUSTOM | Sets the custom property.
VALIDATION | Disables or enables the validations for entire database.

######Note
From v2.2, the new SQL parser is added which will not allow the regular syntax in some cases. Therefore, we have to disable the new SQL parser (StrictSQL) in some cases.

####Example
```java
orientdb> ALTER DATABASE custom strictSQL = false 
```
---
### Backup

It takes all files using Zip algorithm into zip format.
Can be availed by **Automatic-Backup server plugin**. 

* Backup - Create consistent copy of database, all further write operation are locked till backup is finished, It create read only backup file.
* Export - Takes concurrent changes also. it doesn't lock database.

```java
./backup.sh <dburl> <user> <password> <destination> [<type>]
```

* dburl − The database URL where the database is located either in the local or in the remote location.
* user − Specifies the username to run the backup.
* password − Provides the password for the particular user.
* destination − Destination file location stating where to store the backup zip file.
* type − Optional backup type. It has either of the two options.
    * Default − locks the database during the backup.
    * LVM − uses LVM copy-on-write snapshot in background.

#### Example
```java
backup.sh plocal: opt/orientdb/database/demo admin admin ./backup-demo.zip
```
Take backup of local datbase demo and save in current directory.

######Using Console
First we connect to db and create backup
```java
// Connect to db
CONNECT PLOCAL:/opt/orientdb/databases/demo admin admin

// Create Backup
BACKUP DATABASE ./backup-demo.zip 
```
---
### Restore
Can be executed from console only
```java
RESTORE DATABSE <url of the backup zip file>
```
####Example
```java
// Start console
orientdb

// Connect to respective Db
CONNECT PLOCAL:/opt/orientdb/databases/demo admin admin

// Restore Db
RESTORE DATABASE backup-demo.zip
```
---
### Connect
```java
CONNECT <database-url> <user> <password>
```
* database-url − Defines the URL of the database. URL contains two parts one is **mode** and the second one is **path**.
* mode − Defines the mode, i.e. local mode or remote mode.
* path − Defines the path to the database.
* user − Defines the user you want to connect to the database.
* password − Defines the password for connecting to the database.

####Example
```java
CONNECT PLOCAL:/opt/orientdb/databases/demo admin admin
```
---
### Disconnect
```java
DISCONNECT
```
---
### Info
```java
info
```
---
### List Database
```java
// First we have to connect to local/remote server
list databases
```
---
### Freeze Database
```java
// First we have to connect to local/remote server & conncet to a database
FREEZE DATABASE
```
---
### Release Database
```java
// First we have to connect to local/remote server & conncet to a database
RELEASE DATABASE
```
---
### Config Database
```java
// First we have to connect to local/remote server & conncet to a database
CONFIG
```

###### Config Params
 NAME | VALUE
---|---
environment.dumpCfgAtStartup | false
| environment.concurrent | true
| environment.allowJVMShutdown | true
| script.pool.maxSize | 20
| memory.useUnsafe | true
| memory.directMemory.safeMode  | true
| memory.directMemory.trackMode | false
|……………………………………|…………|
| storage.lowestFreeListBound | 16
| network.binary.debug | false
| network.http.maxLength | 1000000
| network.http.charset | utf-8
| network.http.jsonResponseError | true
| network.http.json | false
| tx.log.fileType | classic
| tx.log.synch | false
| tx.autoRetry | 1
| client.channel.minPool | 1
| storage.keepOpen | true
| cache.local.enabled | true

#####Set Config
```java
CONFIG SET <config-variable> <config-value>
// Example
CONFIG SET tx.autoRetry 5 
```

#####Get Config
```java
CONFIG GET <config-variable>
// Example
CONFIG GET tx.autoRetry 
```
---
### Export Database


###Note
* Username/Password are saved in config file, **orintdb/config/orientdb-server-config.xml file**.