# DB Features

### Clusters
It stores group of class/vertices.
Orientdb by default create on cluster per class & record of a class are saved in cluster with same name.

##### Create
```java
CREATE CLUSTER <cluster> [ID <cluster-id>] 
```

cluster - name of cluster.
cluster-id - numeric id

**Different Strategy**
Default - Selects the cluster using the class property default ClusterId.
Robin-Round - Selects the next cluster in a circular order. It is restarting once complete.
Balanced - Selects the smallest cluster. Allows the class to have all underlying clusters balanced on size. When adding a new cluster to an existing class, it fills the new cluster first.

##### Alter
It is used to update attribute on an existing cluster
```java
ALTER CLUSTER <cluster> <attribute-name> <attribute-value> 
ALTER CLUSTER Employee NAME Employee2
```
cluster − Defines the cluster name.
attribute-name − Defines the attribute you want to change.
attribute-value − Defines the value you want to set for this attribute.

**Provided Attributes**
Name | Type | Description
------------ | ------------- | -------------
NAME | String | Changes the cluster name.
STATUS | String | Changes the cluster status. Allowed values are ONLINE and OFFLINE. By default, clusters are online.
COMPRESSION | String | Defines the compression type to use. Allowed values are NOTHING, SNAPPY, GZIP, and any other compression types registered in the OCompressionFactory class.
USE_WAL | Boolean | Defines whether it uses the Journal when OrientDB operates against the cluster
RECORD_GROW_FACTOR | Integer | Defines the grow factor to save more space on record creation. You may find this useful when you update the record with additional information.
RECORD_OVERFLOW_GR OW_FACTOR | Integer | Defines grow factor on updates. When it reaches the size limit, is uses this setting to get more space, (factor > 1).
CONFLICTSTRATEGY | String | Defines the strategy it uses to handle conflicts in the event that OrientDB MVCC finds an update or a delete operation it executes against an old record.
---
##### Truncate
Delete all records of cluster
```java
TRUNCATE CLUSTER <cluster-name>
```
---
##### Drop
Remove cluster and all related content
```java
DROP CLUSTER <cluster-name>|<cluster-id>
```