## Vertex
Vertex are used in graph database
It uses polymorphism

#### Create
```java
CREATE VERTEX [<class>] [CLUSTER <cluster>] [SET <field> = <expression>[,]*]
CREATE VERTEX V1 SET brand = 'maruti', name = 'swift'
```
class − Defines the class to which the vertex belongs.
cluster − Defines the cluster in which it stores the vertex.
field − Defines the field you want to set.
expression − Defines the express to set for the field.


#### Move
Move vertex to other class/cluster
If applied to particular vertex then all related edges are also moved but links will be unaffected.
```java
MOVE VERTEX <source> TO <destination>  [SET [<field>=<value>]* [,]] 
[MERGE <JSON>] [BATCH <batch-size>] 
MOVE VERTEX #11:2 TO CLASS:Employee
```
source − Defines the vertex you want to move. It accepts Record ID of a particular vertex or array of Record IDs for vertices.
destination − Defines where you want to move the vertex. It supports either class or a cluster as destination.
SET − Sets the values to fields.
MERGE − Sets the values to fields through JSON.
BATCH − Defines the batch size.

#### Delete
Delete vertex
To main consistency it remove all referenced from the edges.
```java
DELETE VERTEX <vertex> [WHERE <conditions>] [LIMIT <MaxRecords>>] [BATCH <batch-size>]
DELETE VERTEX Customer WHERE isSpam = TRUE 
```
vertex − Defines the vertex that you want to remove, using its Class, Record ID, or through a sub-query.
WHERE − Filters condition to determine which records the command removes.
LIMIT − Defines the maximum number of records to be removed.
BATCH − Defines how many records the command removes at a time, allowing you to break large transactions into smaller blocks to save on memory usage.

## Edges
It works as relation between vertices.
While creatingif start or end vertice is invalid, process will rollback.

#### Create
```java
CREATE EDGE <class> [CLUSTER <cluster>] FROM <rid>|(<query>)|[<rid>]* TO <rid>|(<query>)|[<rid>]* 
     [SET <field> = <expression>[,]*]|CONTENT {<JSON>} 
     [RETRY <retry> [WAIT <pauseBetweenRetriesInMs]] [BATCH <batch-size>]
CREATE EDGE E1 FROM #10:3 TO #11:4
```
class − Defines the class name for the edge.
cluster − Defines the cluster in which you want to store the edge.
JSON − Provides JSON content to set as the record.
RETRY − Defines the number of retries to attempt in the event of conflict.
WAIT − Defines the time to delay between retries in milliseconds.
BATCH − Defines whether it breaks the command down into smaller blocks and the size of the batches.

#### Update
```java
  UPDATE EDGE <edge>  [SET|INCREMENT|ADD|REMOVE|PUT <field-name> = <field-value> [,]*]|[CONTENT|MERGE <JSON>] 
   [RETURN <returning> [<returning-expression>]] [WHERE <conditions>] [LOCK default|record] [LIMIT <max-records>] [TIMEOUT <timeout>]
  UPDATE EDGE address SET out = (SELECT FROM Address WHERE areaID = 001) WHERE name = 'krishna'
```
edge − Defines the edge that you want to update. You can choose between Class that updates edges by class, Cluster that updates edges by cluster, using CLUSTER prefix, or Record ID that updating edges by record ID.
SET − Updates the field to the given values.
INCREMENT − Increments the given field by the value.
ADD − Defines an item to add to a collection of fields.
REMOVE − Defines an item to remove from a collection of fields.
PUT − Defines an entry to put into map fields.
RETURN − Defines the expression you want to return after running the update.
WHERE − Defines the filter condition.
LOCK − Defines how the record locks between the load and updates.
LIMIT − Defines the maximum number of records.

#### Delete
Handle Consistency by removing all refrence of in & out.
```java
DELETE EDGE FROM #11:5 TO #11:10 WHERE @class = 'Customer' 
```
