## Classes
#### Create
```java
CREATE CLASS <class>  [EXTENDS <super-class>] [CLUSTER <cluster-id>*] [CLUSTERS <total-cluster-number>] [ABSTRACT]
CREATE CLASS Car EXTENDS Vehicle 
```
class − Defines the name of the class you want to create.
super-class − Defines the super-class you want to extend with this class.
total-cluster-number − Defines the total number of clusters used in this class. Default is 1.
ABSTARCT − Defines the class is abstract. This is optional.
---

#### Alter
```java
ALTER CLASS <class> <attribute-name> <attribute-value> 
ALTER CLASS Employee SUPERCLASS +Person 
```
class − Defines the class name.
attribute-name − Defines the attribute you want to change.
attribute-value − Defines the value you want to set for the attribute.

Attribute | Type | Description
--------|--------|--------
NAME | String | Changes the class name.
SHORTNAME | String | Defines a short name, (that is, an alias), for the class. Use NULL to remove a short name assignment.
SUPERCLASS | String | Defines a super-class for the class. To add a new class, you can use the syntax +<class>, to remove it use -<class>.
OVERSIZE | Decimal number | Defines the oversize factor.
ADDCLUSTER | String | Adds a cluster to the class. If the cluster doesn't exist, it creates a physical cluster. Adding clusters to a class is also useful in storing records in distributed servers.
REMOVECLUSTER | String | Removes a cluster from a class. It does not delete the cluster, only removes it from the class.
STRICTMODE | - | Enables or disables strict mode. When in strict mode, you work in schema-full mode and cannot add new properties to a record if they are part of the class' schema definition.
CLUSTERSELECTION | - | Defines the selection strategy in choosing which cluster it uses for new records.
CUSTOM | - | Defines custom properties. Property names and values must follow the syntax <propertyname>=<value> without spaces between the name and value.
ABSTRACT | Boolean | Converts class to an abstract class or the opposite.

#### Truncate
Truncate class will delete all records of clusters defined as part of class. 
In OrientDB, every class has an associated cluster with the same name. 
If you want to also remove all records from the class hierarchy, you need to use the POLYMORPHIC keyword.
```java
RUNCATE CLASS <class> [ POLYMORPHIC ] [ UNSAFE ]
TRUNCATE CLASS Profile
```
class − Defines the class you want to truncate.
POLYMORPHIC − Defines whether the command also truncates the hierarchy.
UNSAFE − Defines the command forces truncation on vertex or edge class.

#### Drop
Drop class remove a class from schema
```java
DROP CLASS <class> 
DROP CLASS Employee
```

## Property
It works like a field of class and column in the database table

#### Create

```java
CREATE PROPERTY <class-name>.<property-name> <property-type> [<linked-type>][ <linked-class>]
CREATE PROPERTY Employee.name STRING
```
class-name − Defines the class you want to create the property in.
property-name − Defines the logical name of the property.
property-type − Defines the type of property you want to create.
linked-type − Defines the container type, used in container property type.
linked-class − Defines the container class, used in container property type.

Property Type - BOOLEAN, INTEGER, SHORT, LONG, FLOAT, DATE, STRING, EMBEDDED, LINK, BYTE, BINARY, DOUBLE

#### Alter
```java
ALTER PROPERTY <class>.<property> <attribute-name> <attribute-value>
ALTER PROPERTY Customer.age NAME born MANDATORY TRUE
```
class − Defines the class to which the property belongs.
property − Defines the property you want to update.
attribute-name − Defines the attribute of a property you want to update.
attribute-value − Defines the value you want to set on the attribute.

Attribute | Type | Description
------|------|------
LINKEDCLASS | String | Defines the linked class name. Use NULL to remove an existing value.
LINKEDTYPE | String | Defines the link type. Use NULL to remove an existing value.
MIN | Integer | Defines the minimum value as a constraint. Use NULL to remove an existing constraint.
MANDATORY | Boolean | Defines whether the property requires a value.
MAX | Integer | Defines the maximum value as a constraint. Use NULL to remove an existing constraint.
NAME | String | Defines the property name.
NOTNULL | Boolean | Defines whether the property can have a NULL value.
REGEX | String | Defines a Regular Expression as constraint. Use NULL to remove an existing constraint.
TYPE | String | Defines a property type.
COLLATE | String | Sets collate to one of the defined comparison strategies. By default, it is set to case-sensitive (cs). You can also set it to case-insensitive (ci).
READONLY | Boolean | Defines whether the property value is immutable. That is, if it is possible to change it after the first assignment. Use with DEFAULT to have immutable values on creation.
CUSTOM | String | Defines custom properties. The syntax for custom properties is <custom-name> = <custom-value>, such as stereotype = icon.
DEFAULT | - | Defines the default value or function.

#### Drop
It removes the property from the schema. It does not remove the property values from the record, it just change the schema
```java
DROP PROPERTY <class>.<property> [FORCE] 
DROP PROPERTY Customer.age 
```
class − Defines the class where the property exists.
property − Defines the property you want to remove.
[Force] − In case one or more indexes are defined on the property.