Each java file must contain a class and file name should be that classname
main is the class which will execute first

# Variables
1. String - For string values
2. Int - For Integer value without decimals
3. Float - Store value with decimals
4. char - store single character i.e "a", "b"
5. boolean - stores boolean value i.e true/false

# Data Types
1. Primitive - byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean and char
2. Non-Primitive -  String, Arrays and Classes -> reference types because they refer to objects.

Data-Type                               Size                                        Desc
byte	                                    1 byte	                           Stores whole numbers from -128 to 127
short	                                   2 bytes	                         Stores whole numbers from -32,768 to 32,767
int	                                       4 bytes	                         Stores whole numbers from -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647
long	                                    8 bytes	                          Stores whole numbers from -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223.372,036,854,775,808
float	                                    4 bytes	                          Stores fractional numbers from 3.4e−038 to 3.4e+038. Sufficient for storing 6 to 7 decimal digits
double	                                8 bytes	                          Stores fractional numbers from 1.7e−308 to 1.7e+038. Sufficient for storing 15 decimal digits
boolean	                               1 byte	                             Stores true or false values
char	                                  2 bytes	                            Stores a single character/letter

# Primitive Number-type
1. Integer types - byte, short, int and long -> Store Whole number irrespective of negative/positive
2. Floating Point types - float & double -> Store number with fractional part
// Note Floating value end with a f word eg -> 2.24f
// Double keyword end with word d -> 19.99d

# Primitive VS Non-Primitive
1. Primitive types are predefined (already defined) in Java. Non-primitive types are created by the programmer and is not defined by Java (except for String).
2. Non-primitive types can be used to call methods to perform certain operations, while primitive types cannot.
3. A primitive type has always a value, while non-primitve types can be null.
4. A primitive type starts with a lowercase letter, while non-primitive types starts with an uppercase letter.
5. The size of a primitive type depends on the data type, while non-primitive types have all the same size.

# Operators
1. Arithmetic operators -> +,-,*,/,%, ++, --
2. Assignment operators -> =, +=, -+, *=, /=, %=, &=, |=, ^=, >>=, <<=
3. Comparison operators -> ==, <, >, !=, >=, <=
4. Logical operators -> ||, &&, !
5. Bitwise operators -> 

#Array
Array is defined as curly braces
Loop using foreach
Syntax
  String[] cars = {"Volvo", "BMW", "Ford", "Mazda"};
  for (String i : cars) {
    System.out.println(i);
  }

# Multidimensional Arrays
Array inside array

# Error Handling
Try - Catch method

# Finally Keyword
It let us execute a piece of code regardless of try catc result

# Throw Kyword
Lets us to throw an error using exception types
Types
1. ArithmeticException
2. ClassNotFoundException
3. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException
4. SecurityException

# Class
public class MyClass {
  int x = 5;
}

#Object from Class
public class MyClass {
  int x = 5;

  public static void main(String[] args) {
    MyClass myObj = new MyClass();
    System.out.println(myObj.x);
  }
}

# Attributes
In above ex
Attribute is x nd can be acessed by creating instance of class.x value

# Static vs Public
Static methods can be called globally within class.
Public methods will be called first be creating object of class first and call object.public method

#Consructors
We can pass parameter to constructor also

#Modifiers
Access Modifiers - controls the access level
Non-Access Modifiers - do not control access level, but provides other functionality

For Classes
Public(Can be accessed by other classes)
default(Can be accessed only by class in same package)

For attributes, methods and constructors
public(Can be accessed by other classes)	
private(Can be accessed within the declared class	)
default(Cab be accessed in the same package. This is used when you don't specify a modifier)
protected(Can be accessed in the same package and subclasses)

