Data first, Logic later
# Encapsulation
Informaton Hiding


# Constructor
  * It has same name as class.
  * A class can have more than one constructor.
  * It can have zero or more parameter.
  * It doesn't return value.
  * It can only be called with new operator.

# Implicit & Explicit parameter
  public void foo(number) {
    System.out.printLn(this.number + number)
  }
  this.number = 10;
  this.foo(55) // 65
  here two parameter are passed.
  #### Explicit parameter
    55 is explicit parameter
  #### Implicit Parameter
    this is impliit parameter as instanc eis passed and it use number variable of this instance.

# Public/Private/Final/

# Static
  There is one static field per class.
    Static -> Exposed the fn/var to JVM
    Static field has single instance.
    If 100 instance of a class is created, static instance is still only one and belongs to class, not individual object
    Static method are kind of those method who doesn't have any imlicit parameter e.g -> math.pow(x,y) i.e doesnot have this parameter

# Setter/Getter method should return cloned data as sending same data will break encapsulation


# Constructors
 ## Overloading
 It means multiple fn avaible with same name with different parameter.
 Which fn will call is based on the number of parameter passed.

 To initialize some data before constructor is called define those in root of main fn/outside of constructor
  ## Call another constructor from constructor
  this("param1", "param2") // inside constructor.

  ## Initialization Blocks
    class Employee {
      private static int nextId;
      private int id;
      // Initialization block, didn't depend on any constructor
        {
          id = nextId;
          nextId++;
        }
    }

  # Static Imports
    import static java.lang.System.*;
    // We can use 
    out.println("Goodbye, World!"); // i.e., System.out
    exit(0); // i.e., System.exit

  # Coding Standard Hints
    * Keep data always private as this violated encapsulation
    * Always initialize data(not depend in default value)
    * Not use too many basic types with other class(create reusable class)
    * Not all field are required getter /setter function
    * Break classes those having too much responsibility
    * Use meaningful naming convention
    * Prefer immutable classes


# Inheritance
  * Classes
  * SuperClasses - > Parent class
  * SubClasses - > Class which inherit super class

  ## Overriding Methods
    Since variable are private so we can't access the variable
    So first we call superclass function first and get result of that and then implement our logic.

    ```java
      public double getSalary() {
        double baseSalary = super.getSalary();
        return baseSalary + bonus;
      }
    ```
    ## Call super class constructor
      ```java
        public Manager(String name, double salary, int year, int month, int day) {
          super(name, salary, year, month, day);
          bonus = 0;
        }
      ```
  # Polymorphism
  ```java
    Manager boss = new Manager(. . .);
    Employee[] staff = new Employee[3];
    staff[0] = boss;
    // In this case, the variables staff[0] and boss refer to the same object. However, staff[0] is considered to be only an Employee object by the compiler.
    // That means you can call
    boss.setBonus(5000); // OK
    // but you can’t call
    staff[0].setBonus(5000); // Error
    // bcoz The declared type of staff[0] is Employee, and the setBonus method is not a method of the Employee class.
  ```

  arrays of subclass references can be converted to arrays of superclass references without a cast. For example, consider this array of managers:

  5.1.6 -> Pending

  # Prevent Inheritance
    Use final in class to prevent other classes from extending current class
    public final class Executive extends Manager{ }
    We can also make methods as final. Then no other subclass can override that method.
    When we declare final to any class, all the methods will automatically become final but fields will not become final

  # Casting
    Forcely changing one type to another
    ```java
      double x = 45;
      int nx = (int) x;
      Manager boss = (Manager) staff[0]; // Employeen array
    ```
    Casting from Superclass to subclass is not allowed.

  # Abstract
  
  # Declaration
    
    ## Public members:
      If we declare a method as public, then we can access that member from anywhere but corresponding class should be public.\
      Visible to the world (public).

    ## Default members:
      If a member is declared as default, then we can access that member only within current package & we can’t access from outside of package.
      Default access also known as package level access.
      Visible to the package—the (unfortunate) default. No modifiers are needed.
    
    ## Private members:
      If a member is declared as private, then we can access that member only within the current class.
      Abstract methods should be visible to child class, private methods will not be visible. Hence private abstract combination is illegal for methods.
      Visible to the class only (private).

    ## Protected members:
      Most understood modifier in Java.
      If a member is declared as protected, then we can access that member within current package anywhere, but outside the package only in child class.
      Within current package, we can access protected members either by parent reference or by child reference.
      Outside package, we can access protected members only by giving child reference.
      Visible to the package and all subclasses (protected).

# Object (Cosmic Superclass)
  Every class internally extend object class
  
  ## Equal Method
    It determine wheather refrence of two object are same or not
    ```java
      foo.name.equals(bar.name)
      Objects.equals(foo.name, bar.name)
    ```

    How equals method work if implicit & explicit param don't belong to same class.
    returns true if a and b are both null, false if exactly one of them is null, and a.equals(b)

    Note: In Equal method learn InstanceOf method(5.2.2 Equality Testing and Inheritance) throughly

  ## Hashcode Method
    It is an integer derived from object, it is part of object so all object has this functionality(What is the use of this
    ```java
      // hashcode algorithm
      int hash = 0;
      for (int i = 0; i < length(); i++)
        hash = 31 * hash + charAt(i);
      // Syntax
        a.hashCode()
    ```

    if a.equals(b) is true, means a.hasCode() will be same as b.hasCode()
  
  ## toString Method


# Generic Array List
  This are dynamic array whose size increase/decrease on adding/removing data, unlike array whose size are fixed and cannot be changed
  ```java
    ArrayList<Employee> staff = new ArrayList<Employee>();
    ArrayList<Employee> staff = new ArrayList<>(); // as of java 7 we can omit type param on right side
    // add data to array list
    staff.add(new Employee("Harry Hacker", . . .));
  ```

  Behaviour
    when we call  add function of array list what it does is
    1. Check if existing array is full or not.
    2. If not full add the data
    3. Else if full it create another bigger array and copy all data from smaller array to bigger array

  If we know how many element we want to store in array we use 
  ```java
    staff.ensureCapacity(100);
    // or 
    ArrayList<Employee> staff = new ArrayList<>(100);
  ```

  ## Trim Array
    When we are sure we dont have to add any more data in array. we use array.trimToSize() to garbage any excess data.
    After size is trimmed, if add any more data it will rearrange the element and take some tile to finish, thats why it should be called when we are sure, no changes will happened in that.

  ## Set
    Array.add(index, element) // should only used to replace existing element in array
    bcoz if array.length == 100 & we use array.set(101, element) cause issue.
  ## get & remove
    array.get(i)
    array.remove(i)