# Why Hooks
###Some Issues
    1. Huge components that are hard to breakdown
    2. Duplicate logic between different components and lifecycle methods
    3. Complex patterns like render props & HOC(reuse stateful logic between components)
    4. Classes are complex and hard to minified, hot reloading flaky and unreliable.

## What is Hooks
    they are JS functions whick will "hook into" React state and lifecycle methods from function components

## Rules of Hooks
    1. Call Hooks at the top level only. Don’t call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions.
    2. Call Hooks from React function components. Don’t call Hooks from regular JavaScript functions. (Can call from your own custom Hooks.)
    <Linter plugin validate these rules.(https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-plugin-react-hooks)


## React Hooks
#### UseState(initial state value as argument)
    It return a pair(current state and a setter to set that state)

#### UseEffect
1. Sometime we do event subscription, data fetching & dom manipulation, these are called side effects bcoz they can affect other components & can't be run during render.
2. Will be equivalent to componentDidMount, componentDidUpdate, and componentWillUnmount
3. Returning a function will ba called at time of unmount
```js
useEffect(() => {
    ChatAPI.subscribeToFriendStatus(props.friend.id, handleStatusChange);
    return () => {
        ChatAPI.unsubscribeFromFriendStatus(props.friend.id, handleStatusChange);
    };
});
```

<b>*Optimizing Performance by Skipping Effects*</b>
1. If multiple render is called then react will subsequently clean and register the useEffect i.e event is registered on every render.
2. It call after every render.

```js
useEffect(() => {
    ChatAPI.subscribeToFriendStatus(props.friend.id, handleStatusChange);
    return () => {
        ChatAPI.unsubscribeFromFriendStatus(props.friend.id, handleStatusChange);
    };
}, [props.friend.id]);
```
* extra param [props.friend.id] will make sure to render this useEffect call only after the "props.friend.id" is changed.
* In the future, the second argument might get added automatically by a build-time transformation.
* to call a useEffect only once pass an empty array as second param.

* Use https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/14920 for validation of hooks syntax
* Always create custom hooks name using prefix "use", thats how linter plugin findout hooks

#### UseLayoutEffect
A DOM mutation 

#### UseContext(Learn)
    A way of using props withing using props drilling method(passing props to nested component);

#### UseReducer
    accept param function, state
    alternative to useState(used where complex logic state is required or dependent on other state value ), accepts a function with param state, action
    Initial state will be specied as an raw object(object assigned to variable is not entertained)

    * Lazy Initialization
    we can pass a third param to reducer hooks

## Rules of Hooks
1. Call Hooks from React function components.
2. Call Hooks from custom Hooks.

* Always call hooks at top level of React Function, 
  so React will know the sequence to call hooks on each render. Thats what allow the React to preserve hooks state.

### Api References
<b>*Lazy initial state*</b>
* initialState of useState is executed on initial render, initialState in subsequent render will be ignored.
* if initial state is result of expensive calculation we can use function in useState
```js
const [state, setState] = useState(() => {
const initialState = someExpensiveComputation(props);
    return initialState;
});
```

### Bailing out of a state update
* If we update a state value with same value, react update will bail out.
* It uses Object.is comparision algorithm
